Java :James Gosling:Java is one of the most popular and successful programming language. Dr. James Arthur Gosling is invented Java and best known as the father of the Java programming language. Java was developed and supported earlier by Sun Microsystem and now by Oracle, after their acquisition of Sun Microsystem on January 2010. Java is created with mission WORA, "Write Once Run Anywhere" and platform independence of Java is one of the pillar of it's success in the enterprise world. Till date, it is one of the most popular application programming language.
C:Dennis Ritchie:Dennis MacAlistair Ritchie, An American computer scientist, created the C programming language between 1967 and 1973 at AT&T Bell labs. C is still very popular and used extensively in System programming. It's older than Java but still maintains it's stronghold. By the way Dennis Ritchie has also created world famous UNIX operating system, with his long-time colleague Ken Thompson. If you compare his popularity with Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, he is no where but if you compare Dennis' contribution to the software world, he has no matching. Every Programmer must know about Dennis Ritchie and his contribution to the programming world.
C++:Bjarne Stroustrup:Bjarne Stroustrup; born 30 December 1950 in Aarhus, Denmark is a Danish computer scientist, most notable for the creation and the development of the widely-used C++ programming language. C++, as name suggested is the next generation language at time C was popular. It comes with object oriented programming feature which was considered phenomenal compared to structural way of C programming. C++ is still one of the very popular language and used extensively in high frequency trading world because of its close proximity with native System and popular object oriented feature.
Python:Guido van Rossum:Python is a general-purpose, high-level programming language, whose design philosophy emphasizes code readability. Its syntax is said to be clear and expressive.Python is designed by Guido van Rossum of CWI. In United states, Python has actually replaced Java at academic level, now days students are started learning programming using Python instead of C or Java, as was the case of previous generation. If you are still not sure whether to use Python or Java to start with programming, this infographic may help you. Python is used extensively in web application development, there are lots of python based web framework out there, software development and information security. Python is also used extensively by tech giants like Google, Yahoo and Spotify.
PHP:Rasmus Lerdorf:No matter how much you hate PHP, you just can't ignore the fact that half of the internet is running on this wonderful internet language. PHP was originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995. The main implementation of PHP is now produced by The PHP Group and serves as the formal reference to the PHP language. That time, PHP was a competitor to Microsoft's Active Server Pages (ASP) server-side script engine and similar languages e.g. Java Server Pages (JSP), but gradually received better acceptance and is now installed on more than 20 million Web sites and 1 million Web servers. It is also open source and used by internet giants like Facebook, Wikipedia, Wordpress and Joomla. PHP is used extensively to to build dynamic web pages and server side development. Sorry, I forgot to tell you the full form of PHP, any guess? Its Personal Home Page :)
Perl:Larry Wall:Perl is a high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming language. designed and developed by Larry Wall in the mid-1980's. Perl rose to fame because of its excellent text processing capability. It is still main language to develop reports, scripts on UNIX systems. Perl is known for parsing and processing large text files and its used in CGI, database applications, network programming and graphics programming. Perl is also used extensively by internet companies like IMDB, Amazon, and Priceline. For Java developers, adding Perl or Python in their portfolio is good addition because you often need a scripting language to do adhoc tasks for maintenance and support purpose.
JavaScript:Brendan Eich:If you ask me, which language is the winner in last 5 to 10 years, I would say JavaScript. It has clearly dominated the client side scripting space in recent past with libraries like jQuery and now moving to Server side development with libraries like node.js. JavaScript is a prototype-based scripting language that is dynamic, weakly typed and has first-class functions, designed by Brendan Eich and developed by Netscape Communications Corporation. JavaScript is used extensively for client side scripting, validation, animation, event capturing, form submission and other common task. It runs inside browser and used by almost all websites e.g. Gmail, Mozila Firefox etc.
Ruby:Yukihiro Matsumoto:Ruby was first designed and developed in the mid-1990s by Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto in Japan. Its fun working with Ruby and if you tried Ruby with Rails you know what I mean. Ruby is influenced by Perl, Ada, Lisp and Smalltalk and designed for productive and enjoyable programming. Ruby is mostly used for web application development and used by major sites like Twitter, Hulu and Groupon.
Lisp:John McCarthy:John McCarthy , second oldest high level programming language. Lisp stands for List processor. I have never tried Lisp but its said to be father of functional programming language e.g. Haskell, Erlang or Scala. It is used for AL development and air defense system.
Pascal:Niklaus Wirth:Pascal is an influential imperative and procedural programming language, designed in 1968–1969 and published in 1970 by Niklaus Wirth as a small and efficient language intended to encourage good programming practices using structured programming and data structuring.